Dive in Gorm setup (#33)
KrispyTech/airneis: docs/dive-in/2024/02/2024-02-07:configure-ent.md

# WIP NOT FINISHED

# Configure ent and atlas dive-in

Author : Barnabé PILLIAUDIN  
Helped by: Cédric Gautier
Date : 2024-02-07

## SUMMARY:
We want to declare a schema of our database and this schema to be applied to the database.
But we don't want it to be like dark magic. We want to have some control over it.
As we are using golang for our backend we think about using gorm and atlas to achieve that.

## SOLUTION:

> Atlas offers a clean to do versioned migrations.

Reviewer: Can you explain?

Reviewer 2: Atlas offers a way to have versionned migrations, which means migrations are in files that are versionned in the repo. It's different that automatic migrations that are run at the start of the api and doesn't generate versionned file.

  ]
}

env "gorm" {
  src = data.external_schema.gorm.url
  dev = "Your dev database uri" # Don't forget to add sslmode=disable if ssl is not enable and search_path=public as queries string
  url =  "Your database uri" # In local it can be the same url
  migration {
    dir = "file://migrations" 
  }
  format {
    migrate {
      diff = "{{ sql . \"  \" }}"
    }
  }
}

```

To create a migration run the following command

```shell
 atlas migrate diff  migration_name --env gorm   
```

To apply the migration run

```shell
atlas migrate apply --env gorm
```

### PROBLEMS with atlas

When trying to rollback a migration or trying to create a second migration I have this error

![img.png](img.png)

The best I was able to do was to clear all the database  by running this command

```shell 
atlas schema clean -u "dburi"
```

### Solution 

After some discutions with a teacher and go developers it seems that's gorm automigrate would be 
enough for our project. If needed we can still create SQL script to correct things that automigrate would have done wrong.
It has the advantage that the migrations will be applied each time that the api is started so we won't need to modify 

> the docker fiel

Reviewer: Do you mean Dockerfile?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Dockerfile
```

# Dive-in: Configure gorm 

Author : Barnabé PILLIAUDIN  
Co-Assignee: Cédric Gautier  
Date : 2024-02-07

## SUMMARY:

> We want to declare a schema of our database and this schema to be applied to the database.
> But we don't want it to be like dark magic. We want to have some control over it.
> As we are using golang for our backend we think about using gorm and atlas to achieve that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We want to declare a schema of our data models that will be applied to our database.
But we don't want it to be like dark magic. We want to have some control over it.
As we are using Golang for our backend we are thinking about using GORM and Atlas to achieve that.
```

## RESEARCH AND TESTS:

Gorm is an orm and a query builder for golang. It's known for its simplicity. It also provides a migration system but it
won't be our first choice.

Before generating a migration we will need to declare our schema. 

To declare your schema with gorm you can create a struct that represent a table where each attribute is a column.
That's a pretty nice way of declaring schema as we will be able to use those structs as our types.

```go
package model

import "gorm.io/gorm"

type User struct {
gorm.Model
Name    string `json:"name" gorm:"unique"`
Age     int    `json:"age"`
IsAdmin bool   `json:"isAdmin"`
}

type Car struct {
gorm.Model
Owner       User   `json:"owner" gorm:"-"`
Constructor string `json:"constructor"`
ModelName   string `json:"modelName"`
}
```

> To make the migrations could use Atlas.It offers a clean to do versioned migrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the migrations we could use Atlas. It offers a clean way to do versioned migrations.
```
